---
title: COMP3650 Learning Portfolio
permalink: /uni.2015/
---

<!-- 
    COMP3530 Week 2 (Systems Thinking):
    Lesson: Analyse a system and identify potential causes for the problem, as well as how my potential fix may affect the cause.
    Proof: unconscious biases, discussion about bias training from the ANU Disabilities Student Association
    What it changes: Research unconscious biases more before running events around inclusion. Consider what effects a project will have before committing completely to it - even though they will find another engineer, having someone point out problems will bring it to light more than if no one does.
-->

This week we learned about feedback systems analysis, which fed right into a conversation I was involved in later in the week with a member of the ANU Disabilities Students Association. We learned that to avoid "fixes that fail" we should analyse the entire system or at least the overall patterns to identify potential causes for the problems, and how my potential fix may affect the cause.

The member of the Association was talking about how unconscious biases can often be made worse by well-meaning training or workshops. Tests on subjects using priming - flashing a word up very briefly - and word associations indicated that their bias towards picking negative or stereotypical words according to the primed subject matter increased after attending workshops intended to lessen the effect of these biases.

This is particularly relevant to what I've been thinking about in terms of computer science as a discipline. Tech culture (and indeed many popular cultures) have deeply ingrained biases against certain kinds of people, but tech has this regularly showcased and pointed out.

As a result of this week I thought a lot more deeply about the problems and what can be attempted and achieved here at university and in future jobs. Maybe I should keep an eye out for projects that will actually have a positive effect on the world, rather than my previous plan of finding a company that's "interesting and not too ethically conflicted".

##More reading##
- [Workshop on Unconscious Bias at work | Google Ventures](https://www.gv.com/lib/unconscious-bias-at-work)
- [Test your own Unconscious Bias | Diversity Partners](http://www.diversitypartners.com.au/test-your-own-unconscious-bias)

<!-- 
    COMP3530 Week 3 (Engineering Context):
    Lesson: Software engineers equipped with systems thinking and an awareness of context can be much, much more than codemonkies. I can choose to be the most multidisciplinary on the team.
    Proof: Mid 2014 Global Cross-Disciplinary Tournament. It was easier to consider problems and solutions that had nothing to do with computer science than I expected. As someone who had more experience with extended group projects than others, I could bring a lot to the table even in areas I had no experience in. It was also easier to rely on research to build an opinion than I had expected. (include video)
    What it changes: Changes my perspective on the jobs that are available in the market. Previously I had just hoped to look for a moderately interesting job in a company without too many ethical conflicts, but I think I may start looking at other types of jobs as well. Potentially research but it doesn't seem like a good place to be.
-->

This week's panel was on the Engineering Context, and was given by an engineer working on realtime radar and missile systems. I wasn't super interested in the mechanics of his job, but the concept of a system engineer's (software or otherwise) huge effect in a multidisciplinary team sparked the idea that I can be a lot more than just a code monkey in any field that I go into. I can choose to have the widest interest and knowledge on the team.

In mid-2014 I worked in a team of five university students from different disciplines and countries to create a project that would address a problem related to "The Future of the Body" for the [Global Cross-Disciplinary Tournament (GXT)](http://www.iaruni.org/gei/gxt). I found that considering information that had nothing to do with my discipline was a lot easier than it seemed for my colleagues. I could bring an analytical mind to the process, and could use some systems thinking after we watched Shayne's talk.

Because of this I changed some aspects of my perspective on available jobs. Previously I had just hoped to look for a moderately interesting job in a company without too many ethical conflicts, but I think I may start looking at other types of jobs as well. Having a hand in a project that visibly works towards improving the status quo would be great, and now I'm more confident that I can work in an area that isn't necessarily my area of expertise.

<!-- 
    COMP3530 Week 4 (Design thinking):
    Lesson: 
    Proof: 
    What it changes:
-->

<!-- 
    COMP3530 Week 5 (Systems Engineering):
    Lesson: 
    Proof: 
    What it changes:
-->